Hi, I'm Pastor Tori Brooks and welcome to Faith Christian Church.
So glad you could join us today.
For the next 30 minutes, we're going to be looking through God's Word and finding ways for it to apply to our lives today.
Hope you enjoy this morning's service.
Oh, praise the Lord.
I want to finish talking to you this morning about definitions because I really feel like it's time to move on, but I wanted to talk about one more word that I think is very important, especially when it comes to daily Christian living.
Because this word,
has been misinterpreted many, many times in the past as a word that is defined by one's individual definition of it instead of God's definition of it.
And I just want to take you through a couple of previous stories.
We're going to walk a little bit through the Old Testament and then talk about Jesus and come through the New Testament because I want to give you a good scope of God's vision of what this word should mean
in our daily Christian living and of course the word I want to talk about this morning is the word sacrifice.
Now one of the key beginning stories and all stories have a beginning obviously but when we talk about beginnings we always in Bible refer to the book of Genesis and there's no greater picture of sacrifice in the book of Genesis than Abraham and Isaac in Genesis chapter 22
In this story we find that God tells Abraham that he wants Abraham to sacrifice his son Isaac, his only son Isaac.
Now we know that he had another son Ishmael before, but God did not refer to Ishmael as being the promised child.
I don't know if you remember this or not, but God made a promise to Abraham and Sarah that they were going to have a child and through that child they were going to be the father of many nations.
Now the problem
with this is that at the time God promised Abraham and Sarah, they were going to have a child.
Abraham and Sarah were, well, old.
Not putting anything on older people, but they were old.
Here they were in their upper 90s and they're beyond the age of giving birth to children.
And to be honest, I don't know if
People who are in their 90s would even want to care for a baby anyway.
I tell Bethany, I said, I'm, you know, here I am 36 years old and I'm glad all the children are here.
You know, I don't know what I'd do with a little bitty baby, but it'd probably drive me crazy.
But the idea that God was going to give to a child was in the natural impossible, but how many, you know, God is a supernatural God.
He doesn't do things just in the natural.
He does things supernaturally.
And all through our Bible studies of Genesis and even Exodus, I have to remind us constantly that it may seem impossible to us because we understand laws and physics and things like that.
But God is beyond any of that.
He operates outside time and physics and the laws.
He invented the laws of nature.
So as the creator of those laws, he's also over those laws.
And he doesn't have to follow the things that we think he should.
And so God gave Abraham and Sarah this beautiful boy Isaac who was born in their old age.
And here he is a young boy and God says to Abraham, now take this wonderful child I've given you and kill him.
Now anybody in their right mind would have obviously said you've got to be crazy.
This is all of our hopes and dreams have been put into this one child.
All of the fulfillment of God's promises seem to be placed in this one single child and yet here God says I want you to kill him.
Now what God was doing with Abraham was not necessarily wanting him to kill the child.
He was testing Abraham's obedience.
I want you to understand that the words obedience and sacrifice were made to go hand in hand when it comes to the Bible.
When God asked for a sacrifice, he always intended it
to be done.
There was never this, and any time it wasn't done, it was considered disobedience to God.
Well, we know the story.
Abraham goes up to the mountain and he ties him down to the altar, and then right before he stabs his son Isaac to kill him, an angel appears and says, don't kill him.
Don't do it.
You fulfilled what God wanted to see.
In fact, God's provided, look over here.
God's provided something for the sacrifice, and there was a ram stuck in the thicket, and it must have been a really big thicket.
to get stuck, because Rams are usually powerful animals, but he got stuck, and they both came down off the mountain.
It was the obedience to this idea of sacrifice that God rewarded Abraham for, and in the Bible later on in the New Testament, God honors Abraham for being willing to sacrifice his son Isaac.
By the time we come to Moses in Exodus 23, sacrifice becomes almost mandatory.
for the feast and for other things involving the law.
Now the idea of sacrificing the law was very simple.
When you sin, you must pay for your sins.
I think this concept almost lost today on younger people because they get away with almost everything.
You know, I often have been criticized because I'll tell my kids on a car trip.
If you don't stop it, I'm turning this car around.
Well, if you know me,
You know, I'm not going to turn the car around.
I'm going to McDonald's.
You know, I'm going, you know, but I want them to believe that there's inside of me a desire to turn the car around and go home and eat a sandwich.
Nasty peanut butter and jelly.
But I want them to behave.
And if they behave, we will continue on to victory.
But if not, we will, the thought of being, and you know what, a lot of times we just go on and it doesn't matter.
And the kids think, hey, if we were loud the last time and he turned the car around, we can be loud the second time.
We were on a trip one time and, you know, it was like, we had planned this trip for months.
We're going to the beach and told the kids, we were 30 miles from the beach.
Said, if you don't stop it, we're turning the car around.
And I looked at my wife and said, we can't do that.
You know how much time and effort and energy we just spent.
$55 on brand new boogie boards, and I've even put aside my fair sharks for the day.
I said, I've put on the mind of Christ, cast out all fear, and I'm ready to go in the ocean, even though there could be a shark, I'm going.
If we're gonna tell the kids they're gonna have to pay for some wrong they do, at least let's make it something that we can do that we're going to do, and not something that we're just pretending we might do.
Well, the parchment for sin was always severe.
In fact, God created a system of sacrifice where that if you sinned, you were to take an animal.
And with one hand, you were to place your hand on the animal's head.
And in symbolism, pass your sin onto the animal.
And with the other hand, you were to take the ceremonial knife and to kill that animal.
Now the horror of this exercise was to make people feel bad for having to kill the animal and not do it anymore.
Because you would think after a while, you know, you get attached to these animals.
These are animals you either bought or you raised yourself.
And sometimes you would think that people would be onto this as something that would be, I don't want to ever do that again.
And yet, sacrificial system became something that was just done all the time.
In fact, it became so, so, so just ordinary and common that it would just happen all the time.
There was never a time that the authors didn't stop flowing with blood because the people sinned.
In fact, later on, we'll find out that people were doing it, were raising animals just so they would have something to sacrifice.
just so that they would have something in the time.
But sacrifice wasn't all that God demanded.
Sometimes God wanted just obedience.
Because sometimes in the obedience made a sacrifice on our own part.
There was a story in 1 Samuel, chapter 15 about Saul.
Saul was not the best king in the world, but he was Israel's first king.
And Saul had in mind to make himself a man higher stature than when he was told by God to go in.
I want you to kill every man, woman, and child, every living creature.
I want you to wipe in and decimate the whole place.
And Saul didn't do it.
In fact, Saul wanting to make a name for himself decided he would take the king
who was a man of higher stature, King Agag, and he would take King Agag and haul him through the streets of the city, showing everybody, look what I captured.
And then he took all these animals, the Bible said they were the better animals or the good animals or the better animals, animals for sacrifice to take these animals and they were going to go in and have this glorious feast and mock the king.
When the prophet came through, knowing the mind of God, the prophet came, Samuel came in and said, listen, why do I keep hearing all of these sheep and animals?
Weren't you supposed to kill everything?
He said, well, I wanted to honor God.
I wanted, all this is for God.
I just wanted to show God, well, all that wasn't for God because if he would done it for God, he would have done exactly what God told him to do.
What he did was he wanted everybody to see him walking in triumphant, walking in victorious and leading the king around by a rope on his neck.
Samuel tells us some words that should resonate in our minds.
And yet sometimes it is the words we put back all the time in the church of Samuel.
Samuel says, it's better to obey than the sacrifice.
By the time Isaiah, the prophet comes around, Isaiah chapter one, God says, you know what?
Sacrifices have become meaningless.
Now, the law was set up so that sacrifices were supposed to mean something to you.
You were supposed to feel the connection of what your sin does, the damage your sin causes, the problems and conflicts, the cost of sin was supposed to cost you something.
And yet, by the time Isaiah comes around, God says, you know what, I've had enough.
Your sacrifices are worthless.
Why were the sacrifices worthless?
They were worthless because even though they did what was proper according to the law, the attitude of men's hearts never changed.
Listen, the attitude of men's hearts never changed.
The attitude was when you sacrifice, it's supposed to do something to you.
It's supposed to remind you of the penalties and remind you of the cost.
And yet they didn't.
They just kept on.
Even after the captivity in Babylon, the one thing they wanted to do was just rebuild the temple so they could keep on sacrificing.
Luckily for us, Jesus came.
And as much as I wanted to get into all the things Jesus did for us, the overall point is Jesus came and made the perfect sacrifice.
And in making the perfect sacrifice, he did exactly what he needed so that we could have the perfect sacrifice to cover our sins.
The problem though with the church was, and still seems to be the problem with the church's two things.
One, the sacrifice of Jesus for our sins
When we know that he sacrificed his life for our sins, it's supposed to do something in us.
Do you know that when I was first told the story of Jesus dying on the cross from my sins, I didn't grab the full picture of what that looked like.
Being a child from the visual generation,
And we believe everything we see on TV because it registers in our minds as being true and accurate.
I never really caught it because it was just words on the page or words being spoken.
And then movies come out like the Jesus film or the Passion of the Christ and suddenly the visualization of the sacrifice of Jesus.
And yet you would think with all the visuals we have of Jesus' sacrifice, it would do something to us.
you would think our lives would be forever changed, our consciences would be forever marked with the idea that this man came and shed his blood and died because I missed the mark because I sinned.
In fact, it should stir us up to never sin again.
There should be something inside of us that says, listen, knowing what Jesus did for me, I never want to sin again.
And yet most people just keep on saying it.
The problem with sacrifices, we don't really understand what it means to us.
And I just want to talk just a little bit more today about what Jesus said, sacrifice is supposed to mean for us.
He being the ultimate solution for the problem of sin also includes us in there,
to follow after him, to sacrifice ourselves for what he wanted us to do.
Again, sacrifice with obedience.
This is what Jesus says in Matthew chapter 16, starting in verse number 24.
Then Jesus said to his disciples, if anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.
For whoever desires to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
For what profit is it to a man if he games the whole world and loses his soul?
Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul?
For the Son of Man will come in the glory of his father and with his angels and then he will reward each one according to his works.
I think one of the problems we have in the church today is understanding our word sacrifice.
What does it mean to us?
Because here's what sacrifice means to a lot of people.
Sacrifice means this to a lot of people.
I will give what I feel like giving when I feel like giving it and will deem it a sacrifice because I'm giving something.
I can't tell you the number of times.
I know I shouldn't say that, but I can't tell you the number of times people give that it's not necessary to give or they give out of feeling guilty instead of giving out of the abundance of their heart.
giving because God asked them to.
Can I tell you the one thing that has just sparked inside of my mind and I was praying, God, give me a phrase to help people understand this.
And this is what he gave me.
Sacrifice without obedience is wasteful.
Listen, sacrifice without obedience is wasteful.
When we claim that we're doing something and we're sacrificing,
for God and God's never asked us to do that, then we're wasting our time.
We're wasting our energy.
We're wasting our resources and wasting our finances.
Listen, part of what living for God is about is obedience.
And yes, God does ask us to sacrifice ourselves.
Listen, Jesus said, listen, if you wanna come after me, if you wanna be my disciple, if you wanna live this Christian life, you've got to deny yourself.
And a lot of people aren't willing to sacrifice that.
You know, most people when they're growing up, they have dreams and ambitions and goals.
They have, I want to be this.
I'll never forget.
I had a whole list of things I wanted to be.
Now, obviously you can't be all that list.
Just not have time.
Not going to be 969 years old.
I won't, maybe 140.
That's my goal, but you know, I'm not going to be able to be all these things that I want to be.
But I began to realize something when I gave my heart and life to Jesus Christ, what I wanted and what he wanted could be two separate things.
And I must be willing to say, if this is not what you want, God, let me sacrifice all this other stuff, put it away, put aside and follow after you in obedience.
Now, let's say part of that is not something that Jesus told me to sacrifice.
And I threw all that talent away because I felt like I just wanted, I wanted to do this.
I could go through a whole lot of different things in my mind that I'm thinking of, but listen, whatever, but it's not just about sacrificing for sacrificing saying.
It's about saying, Jesus, what do you want me to sacrifice?
Now, most people aren't going to do that in life because we don't like the idea of going up to Jesus and going, hi, Jesus, good morning.
What do you like me to sacrifice today?
Because most of us feel like we don't have anything to begin with.
And to give up more for Jesus would just be too much for us.
And yet Jesus says this, what profits a man if he has everything he ever wants in life?
He has every desire of his heart.
He loses his soul because he didn't obey.
There are countless times throughout the Bible where Jesus asked people to surrender of themselves.
In fact, when Jesus makes this comment in Matthew 16, it is after the crowds have gone.
He is going through a part where everybody was on the bandwagon and now everybody's off the bandwagon.
So that's the thing with Jesus.
You got to understand living for him.
It's not an easy thing.
Sacrificing yourself, denying yourself is not an easy thing.
And that's why most people don't do it.
They don't do it because they understand that to give themselves up to God, to surrender their lives to Jesus Christ, to sacrifice themselves means you give up everything that you want for everything that he wants.
It's not easy.
I can't tell you the number of people I know today that aren't in ministry because when Jesus asked them to make the sacrifice of their lives to commit,
to following him with all their hearts.
You know what they said?
I would love to as long as I can keep this, as long as I can keep that, as long as I can keep my car or I can keep my house, as long as I can keep this job or I can keep this thing.
And listen, I'm telling you, Jesus has called us to sacrificial living.
Do you know the gospel should be considered to be a sacrificial gospel?
Well, like Kevin said this morning in prayer, it's become a save all gospel, a help all gospel.
Do this in your whole world.
We'll turn into roses and without thorns, you know, and come high and all this wonderful stuff.
And yet the Bible always talks about sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice.
Real living in Jesus Christ is going to come with sacrifices.
It's going to come with times when you have to deny yourself and give up something for him.
For some of you, it may be God may say, I want you to sell this and give it to whatever.
You know, I'll never tell you that God's going to tell you to sell everything you've got and give it to the church.
That's not for me to say, but he may.
He may say, I want you to give up what you're doing and follow after me.
He may say, I want you to give up a Saturday and join the evangelism team.
Do you not know God?
That Saturdays are my day off.
God says, I know everything about you.
I know the hairs on your head.
I know every tear you've ever cried.
I know every pain you feel in your body.
Of course I know you and I know your schedule.
The problem is the church wants to sacrifice when it wants to sacrifice.
and doesn't want to sacrifice when it needs to sacrifice.
It's a shame how much has been wasted in the church because people gave the wrong thing at the wrong time out of their own desire to be noticed instead of their desire to serve and obey God.
See, we don't get to pick and choose what we sacrifice to Him when He asks.
I can imagine Abraham
You're going to think bad to me, but don't just listen to me.
I can imagine Abraham when God says, I want you to sacrifice your son.
And I imagine the first son Abraham looked at was an Isaac.
Let's be honest.
Can I sacrifice one of the wives, you know?
Can I sacrifice something else?
Can I do something instead?
Can I barter?
But you know what?
You can't barter with God.
When God asks you to be obedient, when He asks you to sacrifice of yourself, He's not doing it because He's got Plan B and C on standby.
He's doing it because He's relying on you.
The great thing about God is God will always come through for His people.
But the sad thing is, is that when we don't obey the curse that comes upon us.
When Jesus gives the instructions on how to follow after him, I can imagine that all the glamour and glory of the feeding of the 5,000 just drained off their faces.
And there was no more talk about tent revivals and newspaper articles.
Jesus wasn't talking about parades with palm branches.
He's talking about crosses.
It was talking about ultimate sacrifices.
And the reality is today it would be hard for some of you.
If Jesus Christ came into this room today and said, I want you to sacrifice your life for me.
I want you to go to this country.
I want you to do this.
I want you to do that.
Would you give up everything to follow after me?
Most of us would have to think twice because it's a hard thing.
Don't ever think that living for Jesus is easy.
Don't ever think that obeying God is going to be a piece of cake.
But can I tell you that everyone who ever sacrificed for Jesus Christ was rewarded?
Now listen to me.
You say, well pastor, I don't see Peter rewarded.
Dude,
Man, he hung on a tree upside down and died.
But I can tell you the moment his last breath left his body and he came to see Jesus face to face in heaven.
It was all worth it.
See, we have gotten in our minds that the reward of the church is on earth, that the reward of the church is how big a tenant you have or how much money you have in the bank.
Do you know that Jesus never intended the reward of the church to be on earth?
Jesus never intended the reward of the individual Christian to have their name on papers or to sell multi-million dollars worth of books.
The reward of the Christian who believes and serves Jesus with all their heart and obedience and sacrifice to him.
The reward doesn't come on earth, it comes in heaven.
And it's hard when all the world today tells us, if you do this, you can have riches here and you can do this here.
And we see people who are having the riches here and God says, I don't want that for you.
you to put your trust in me that the reward is after.
It's hard to think about those kind of things because we can't see heaven right now.
We can't feel heaven.
We can't check our account up in heaven to see how much we've got stored up up there.
And it's hard, but Jesus said, listen, if you want treasure on earth, you can have it, but that's all you'll get.
Remember the Pharisees?
Everybody knows this them.
Everybody applauds them.
They have their reward.
If we truly want to sacrifice ourselves, we will truly want to deny ourselves and take up our cross and follow Him.
It's going to take more than what we're doing now.
Because nobody ever obeyed halfway with God and God with what they were reward.
Can't halfway sacrifice an animal.
Can't halfway sacrifice your time and your attention.
Because if you do
If you sacrifice what you want to, when you want to do it, it's wasteful.
When I was in Tennessee, went to a church and people gave stuff to the church, I was like, I'm sacrificing my old cabinet to the church.
Like cabinet wasn't worth the wood it was made out of.
It had been beat up, shot up.
It was that back behind the barn.
They wanted to get rid of it.
They wanted to sacrifice what they wanted to,
when they wanted to do it to make themselves feel better.
Well, listen, that's not what sacrificing is about.
When Jesus went to the cross to be the perfect sacrifice, he wasn't thinking about himself, he was thinking about you and me.
When he sacrificed himself on the cross, he was thinking about how what he was going to do was going to help you and I.
And I guarantee he wasn't thinking about the stories that were going to be made of him.
The movies that he was going to be starred in.
You know what he was thinking about?
He was thinking about you and me.
There's that person in the Bible says that he was not willing that any should perish.
So he made a way we wouldn't have to perish.
He sacrificed himself.
The Bible says that rarely does a good man die for a good person.
But why we were yet sinners Christ died for us.
And he didn't think worried about how much it was going to cost.
He knew it was going to cost everything.
Yet in obedience to the will of God, he went through and because of his sacrifice, you and I have access to God.
You and I have our sins forgiven.
And when it comes to us, Jesus asked us to sacrifice ourselves.
He laid out the model of complete sacrifice so we could see.
The real question is, are we going to follow?
So, well, Pastor, I've always heard that scripture deny yourself, take up your cross and follow me.
That's for people in the ministry.
That was for anybody who would follow Christ.
That was not just for ministers.
That was not just for preachers.
That was for everybody who would follow after you.
all throughout the Bible and throughout the New Testament period, even to the third, fourth, and fifth century, you still find Christians.
In obedience to God, sacrificing themselves.
Doesn't mean they all died.
That means they didn't care if they died.
They didn't care if they lost everything.
They didn't care if tomorrow the world fell apart and they didn't have anything.
As long as they had Jesus and were willing to share Jesus with others, they were doing what they were supposed to do.
Sacrifice is one of the hardest words to swallow in the Bible because it means you can't do what you want to do and be successful.
Sacrifice is only successful when it comes through total and complete obedience to what God asked you to do in the first place.
And what I really want to say is I'm glad Jesus went through with his sacrifice.
because if he hadn't, I don't know where we'd be.
He gave all to show us how to give all.
Thank you for watching today's service, but you really should visit in person.
Service times are at 10 a.m. Sunday morning, 6 p.m. on Sunday evening, and Wednesday night Bible study begins at 7 p.m. We're looking at a 582 Rockingham Road.
It's on Route 5 just north of Bellows Falls.
For more information you can visit our website at www.faithchristianag.com God bless you and have a great day.